Judicial Committee Rules of Appellate Procedure
Libertarian Party of Idaho Judicial Committee
As Amended April 2022

1. The Judicial Committee shall take action only when its Chair receives a written request for a ruling on a matter identified in the Party's Bylaws as being within the Committee's jurisdiction ("Petition"). Such petition(s) shall identify:
	a) The basis for the subject matter jurisdiction of the Committee;
	b) the ruling requested;
	c) the verifiable identity of the person or persons, affiliate, or Party committee petitioning for the requested ruling ("petitioner(s)"); and
	d) the identity by individual name of any person, affiliate, or Party committee that would be directly affected by the requested ruling ("affected parties").
	e) written and other evidence as the petitioner believes supports the grant of the ruling requested.

2. All affected parties, together with any other person, affiliate, or Party committee identified by the Judicial Committee as likely to be affected ("additional affected parties") will be considered a prospective "respondent."

3. The quorum of the Judicial Committee to decide any matter shall be three members, or the entirety of the committee, whichever number is smaller.

4. In the event that a member of the Judicial Committee is a petitioner or respondent in a matter brought to the Judicial Committee, he shall recuse himself from consideration as a Judicial Committee member with respect to that matter. If the Chair of the Judicial Committee is a petitioner or respondent, the member of the Judicial Committee who received the largest number of votes in his election to the Judicial Committee shall act as Chair for that matter.

5. In the event that a quorum cannot be reached with respect to a matter due to the recusal of members of the Judicial Committee, the matter shall be referred to the State Central Committee, which shall decide the matter according to the Rules prescribed in this document.

6. When the Committee is called into action during a State Convention, the Chair shall convene the Committee as soon as is reasonably possible, and the Committee shall consider the matter before it in a meeting open to the Convention Delegates, who may observe but not participate in the proceedings and deliberations. Upon request of petitioners or respondents, or at the Committee's direction, the Committee may hear arguments from petitioners or respondents in person.

7. When a petition is received at any time other than a State Convention, the Chair shall promptly forward the petition to all other Committee members by electronic mail. The other Committee members shall promptly acknowledge receipt.

8. Within seven days following the receipt of a petition, the Chair shall provide a copy of the petition to each prospective respondent, along with any supporting material the Chair has been sent, and notice that any Response to the petitions by any respondent much be sent in writing within 7 days, or if received during State Convention, promptly.

9. The Chair shall promptly forward a copy of any responses recieved to each of the other Committee members via electronic mail, or postal mail if specifically requested, along with any supporting material and counter-arguments he has been sent.

10. A copy of any petition or response shall be made available electronically upon request to any sustaining member. The Committee may by a majority vote redact portions of any petition or response.

11. When any petition or response is received by the Chair and distributed to the Committee members, the members shall review all material sent within seven days of receiving it, and each member shall either recuse himself or advise the chair as soon as he has received the material.

12. After the time period for responses has passed, and the Chair has been advised by enough Committee members to form a quorum that they have reviewed the petitions and responses provided, the Chair shall set a time for a meeting of the Committee to decide the matter at hand and notify the Committee in writing of such a time. Unless all Committee members who have not recused themselves request a physical gather, the meeting shall take place by telephone or video conference, to be arranged by the Chair. When not considering matters during a State Convention, the Committee may by a 2/3 vote deliberate in open session; otherwise, deliberations shall be in executive session. However, any oral arguments shall be in open session, and any decision shall be rendered in writing, which written decision shall be public. The Committee may at its discretion offer to the petitioners and respondents an equal opportunity to make their arguments orally via telephone, video, or physical conference, under such rules as the Committee shall specify. Committee members who are unable to participate in the meeting shall retain the right to vote by electronic mail or phone, provided their vote is received by the Chair no later than 10 days after the meeting.

13. When the Committee reaches a decision, the Chair shall notify the petitioners who requested the ruling, any respondents to the petitions, the State Chair, and the State Secretary. Preliminary notification may be made orally, in person or by telephone; official notification shall be made in writing, as soon as all participating Committee members have voted on the matter in question, or 10 days after the meeting if all members have not voted.

14. Petitions, responses, supporting materials, and notifications required to be provided in connection with any proceeding shall be delievered by electronic mail.
